The President:
This week, I've been traveling
across the country --
from North Carolina to Georgia
to here at Hyde Park Academy in
my hometown of Chicago --
talking with folks about the
important tasks that I laid
out in my State of the Union
Address: reigniting the true
engine of America's economic
growth -- a rising,
thriving middle class.
Every day, we should ask
ourselves three questions:
How do we bring good
jobs to America?
How do we equip people with
the skills those jobs require?
And how do we make sure
your hard work leads to a
decent living?
I believe all that starts by
making America a magnet for new
jobs and manufacturing.
After shedding jobs
for more than 10 years,
our manufacturers have added
about 500,000 jobs over
the past three.
What we need to
do now is simple.
We need to accelerate
that trend.
We need to launch manufacturing
hubs across the country that
will transform hard-hit regions
into global centers of high-tech
jobs and manufacturing.
We need to make our tax
code more competitive,
ending tax breaks for companies
that ship jobs overseas,
and rewarding companies that
create jobs here at home.
And we need to invest in the
research and technology that
will allow us to harness more
of our energy and put more
people back to work repairing
our crumbling roads and bridges.
These steps will help
our businesses expand and
create new jobs.
But we also need to provide
every American with the skills
and training that they
need to fill those jobs.
Let's start in the earliest
years by offering high-quality
pre-school to every
child in America,
because we know kids in
these programs do better
throughout their lives.
Let's redesign our high schools
so that our students graduate
with the skills that employers
are looking for right now.
And because taxpayers can't
continue to subsidize the
soaring cost of
higher education,
I've called on Congress to take
affordability and value into
account when determining which
colleges receive certain types
of federal aid.
So those are steps we can take
to help bring good jobs to
America and equip our people
with the skills those
jobs require.
And that brings us to
the third question --
how do we make sure hard work
leads to a decent living?
No one in America should work
full-time and raise their
children in poverty.
So let's raise the minimum
wage so that it's a wage you
can live on.
And it's time to harness
the talents and ingenuity of
hardworking immigrants by
finally passing comprehensive
immigration reform --
securing our borders,
establishing a responsible
path to earned citizenship,
and attracting the
highly-skilled entrepreneurs
and engineers that
will help create jobs.
These steps will help grow our
economy and rebuild a rising,
thriving middle class.
And we can do it while
shrinking our deficits.
We don't have to choose
between the two --
we just have to
make smart choices.
Over the last few years, both
parties have worked together to
reduce the deficit by
more than $2.5 trillion --
which puts us more than halfway
towards the goal of $4 trillion
in deficit reduction that
economists say we need to
stabilize our finances.
Now we need to finish the job.
But I disagree with Republicans
who think we should do that by
making even bigger cuts to
things like education and job
training, or Medicare and
Social Security benefits.
That would force our senior
citizens and working families to
bear the burden of deficit
reduction while the wealthiest
are asked to do nothing more.
That won't work.
We can't just cut our
way to prosperity.
Instead, I've proposed
a balanced approach;
one that makes responsible
reforms to bring down the cost
of health care and saves
hundreds of billions of dollars
by getting rid of tax loopholes
and deductions for the well-off
and well-connected.
And we should finally
pursue bipartisan,
comprehensive tax reform that
encourages job creation and
helps bring down the deficit.
So we know what we need to do.
All the steps I've
mentioned are commonsense.
And, together, they will help us
grow our economy and strengthen
our middle class.
In the coming weeks and
months, our work won't be easy,
and we won't agree
on everything.
But America only moves forward
when we do so together --
when we accept certain
obligations to one another and
to future generations.
That's the American story.
And that is how we will
write the next great
chapter -- together.
Thanks and have a great weekend.